# PedResearch
WUNET  BASED DEEP LEARNING MODEL FOR DETECTION OF POLYMICROGYRIA IN PEDIATRIC BRAIN MRI
  https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/lingfengzhang/pediatric polymicrogyria-mri-dataset.

  Early detection of Brain abnormalities in infants is a crucial part   as it lead to better life ahead for children’s and their parents. It lead to constraints in the development of child’s brain sometimes it may result from inherited genetic defects and the continuous   mutations within genes.  These things are due to the reason disorders that develop in utero and are present at birth lead to cortical malformations. PMG (Polymicrogyria) is a neurological challenge significantly occur in Pediatric Populations. It is a condition   occurred by excessive amount of small number of irregular folds know as (gyri) in cerebral cortex, it is the outermost part of  infant’s brain higher order thinking level , motor control and sensory processing parts. As we see the difference in between the normal structure of brain and PMG are noteworthy. While a  brain has a simple well organized pattern specification of gyri and sulci  while a PMG brain  have thickened , irregular gray kind of matter  with numerous small gyri and shallow sulci. This the interface in PMG  Brain MRI Scans is irregular and in normal brain its smooth.
As per study conducted  many things have evolved that  Polymicrogyria  is not a one size fits all condition for example the two cases of PMG can be differ or not  in various forms each with its own challenges:
All the conditions and level of symptoms of PMG plays important role for understanding the level of impact in individual’s life.
As we dive deeper in PMG  it behave sometimes like an unfolding mystery with potential risk factors and causes leads to more Questions.  The exact reason behind the occurrence of PMG  its remains hard to find  leaving medical doctors , professionals and researchers with predictions than precise  logical answers. Several studies define that Genes plays a crucial   role in development of polymicrogyria. 
Detecting  PMG in the world of neuro  brain imaging. Many  diagnosis tools are used in demand for evolving the medical  diseases   like  Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) and Computed Tomography (CT) scans. These tools are helpful in revealing the different state of brain while entering the brain through technologies  clarifying its detailed  structure.  With the help of high Resolution grey scale images , it’s the  gold mined data for the medical diagnosis PMG. With the help of super microscopic  Zoomed pictures  surface of brain and its soft tissue  revealing its folds and signs of telltale. 
Due to the heterogeneous  nature of brain surface  cortical abnormalities  the identification of occurrence of PMG in infants is difficult to predict. Traditionally medical specialist  heavily rely on  radiologist expertise made the whole complete process time consuming and  inaccurate sometimes.  Based on the evolution of Technologies  many researchers  had explored many autonomous solutions  for detecting Polymicrogyria (PMG) in MRI Scans . Where these  solutions had  given promising solutions , but they are also constrained by may issues such as limited data on infants , imbalanced dataset.
The first MRI, which led to PMG diagnosis, was performed at the median age of 1.3 years [interquartile range (IQR) 0.3–3]. There was no statistical difference between males and females regarding age at MRI (P = 0.08). Forty-two per cent of the patients were diagnosed with PMG during the first year of life and 64% during the first 2 years of life. [1] The most  frequent symptom  that lead to MRI and diagnosis of PMG was seizures , development delay , cognitive impairment. In some individual it was caused  to be vascular  based on MRI findings. It basically disrupt the normal process of cortical development. In case of Radiological definition of PMG it has been classified in three morphological subtypes : coarse , delicate and saw-toothed , appearances are highly variable and depend on age and degree of myelination. But radiological pattern appearance  of PMG   correlate poorly with aetiology as it doesn’t have the resolution to describe the detail of cortex as pathological correlation is essential for its accurate  prediction is necessary.  To address multiple challenges this study proposed a deep learning  based Framework  for the detection of PMG. With segmentation capabilities there  are many models  that achieves superior accuracy and robustness on imbalanced Pediatric MRI datasets , outperforming existing approaches in term of precision , recall and overall reliability. In this Research paper we came with the potential of WUNet framework to revolutionize  Diagnosis of PMG with efficient and reliable tool. This work not only advances the state of automated neuroimaging analysis but also paves the way for improvement of patients. In Pediatric population  early accurate diagnosis is critical  for guiding interventions and improving infants conditions. However many methods fall short in addressing the proper outcome of pediatric PMG  so we propose a WUnet implementation for predicting and classification of PMG in infants  for superior performance  , offering reliable tools for aiding radiologist in clinical decision making.







